So, I did wanna also
briefly touch on the shell.
Now, I don't want to go
very deep into this.
Much like window managers,
I don't wanna go deep into this.
Cuz I actually find that your shell is
not as important as where you can spend
your time.
A lot of people just use what's
available and that's that.
If you're on macOSX, zsh,
I believe comes already installed.
You just use zsh, right?
You may use My Zsh to have
a pretty prompt, right?
So, if you look at my prompt,
it has like what folder I'm in.
I'm on, I'm in git,
it shows me my branch, right?
It gives me all those kinda nice
pretty things in my prompt.
You can set all those things yourself.
Or you can use plugins,
I just use plugins.
It's just easier for me.
I don't have to think about it.
And I don't really wanna
learn the prompt language.
That's just my lifestyle I live.
Nonetheless, it all starts with the shell,
right?
For those that don't really
know what the shell is.
We'll get into that in a moment.
I strongly suggest zsh.
Just pick something, use it honestly.
In my personal opinion,
don't spend a lot of time on it.
Just get something you like, right?
We've already gone through
the installation process of zsh.
So, I don't need to show you
how I install zsh anymore.
But what is a shell?
Well, there's a guy named,
I call him The Wizard.
His name is Las Smiles.
He's like 70 years old and
he streams on Twitch.
But he frequently gets banned for
showing movies.
And so, he's currently banned right now,
if I'm not mistaken.
So, I have as a YouTube linked.
But, he experienced computers.
Like it just the rowdiest of days, right?
He has stories about how he had to like
tried to save the server farm when he was
younger.
But they only had punch cards and
he tripped and fell.
And like his whole program,
he actually has those stories, right?
Just super awesome, but he had a really
great explanation for what the shell is.
Cuz in my head,
I always had this kind of specific
thought process of what the shell is.
And I was kind of wrong.
Cuz a lot of people don't really know the
difference between a shell and a terminal.
So, at one point in life,
there was terminals, literal physical
terminals that had keyboards.
And then, there was actual servers
that you time shared on all, right?
So, if you wanted to run your program for
class, for school, for whatever.
You actually have something
remotely that ran at all.
And you just kind of were on your
little terminal that sent things.
The terminal just simply gets
key input and displays output.
And it sends all the stuff over
to something to be interpreted,
do the system calls, run your program.
So, that's really what is happening.
And so, this little communication
line existed at one point.
But, in the olden days,
when you say you sent over ls and
you meant to do dash la but
you sent over underscore la.
What would end up happening is go,
wow, that thing doesn't exist.
Your connections dead now,
I don't know who you are, you screwed up,
you can't be here.
So, then you'd have to re-log in.
Redo all that.
And so, how The Wizard describes, is that,
the shell is not a shell, around your
computer, it's a shell around you.
It protects you from doing something dumb,
right?
It is a language that you can use and
a way to interact with
your operating system.
Make system calls,
start processes, do all that.
And if you screw up,
its gonna treat you really nicely.
It's gonna say, hey, you messed up.
Here's some information
about how you messed up.
Don't worry, you're still logged in,
everything is still fantastic.
You're not getting destroyed.
And so, I always really liked this kind
of analogy between the difference,
between a terminal.
Really just a stupid input.
It just runs a program,
does input, does output.
And the shell is the thing that
interacts with the operating system.
And so, you can technically start
a terminal and started off and say no JS,
all right?
So, you can actually launch a terminal
in no JS, it launches the program.
And then you can only interact with no JS.
And the moment you quit no JS, it will
also kinda quit that entire session also.
Your terminal will also quit because
there's nothing left to run.
It's done.
And so, that's kinda the main difference
between a shell and a terminal.
And it's good to know these things.
I didn't really know these things for
a long time.
Is it super important I mean
in our day to day life.
It's not like super important to
know these fine grained differences.
But you should at least
minimally know that.
And so, to kinda really drive this home.
Let me show you something kinda neat.
So, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
relaunch that docker instance.
Let's clear everything,
I'll zoom in on just a little bit more
to make it a little bit easier to read.
And we're gonna go apt install zsh,
one more time.
It's gonna do all that.
Yep, let's install just zsh.
And so now that zsh is running,
I'm gonna do this.
I'm gonna go zsh.
So, when I press that, I want you to see
the difference because the prompt changes.
You'll see that I've logged,
I have now started the zsh process.
And I can go ps, ps is a way for
you to do a lot of process stuff.
I'm gonna go, -o pid and ppid and
look for everything that's running zsh.
And it's gonna say, hey, there's one PID.
It's ideas 98, its parent is 1, right?
That's the shell that was
launched when we launched docker.
So, I'm gonna copy and paste, this just
so, I don't have to do that again.
Actually, let's not do it that way.
Let's go up here.
Let's go back and yank that.
There we go.
All right, so now let's relaunch zsh and
then let's relaunch that.
Look at what happens here.
The PID that we were on is now the parent
to this PID, which is a new zsh, right?
So we can re-zsh it again and
then we can redo that.
And you'll notice once again,
the PID that was the child before.
The one that we just launched,
is now the parent.
And now there's a new one.
So, the shell experience you can just
launch over and over again within itself.
And you're still just launching a program.
And when I type in things,
it's like, hey, this doesn't exist.
I could exit this, but
I haven't exited zsh all the way.
Because now I've moved up from 125 to 121.
Accept that, now I'm likely in 98, right?
I'm in 98.
And my parents want are the standard or
the one that was launched with docker.
Now, if we were to do the exact
same thing, let's paste that in.
You'll see, hey,
there's no zsh running at all right?
So, now we're kinda in the top level
one that we've, that ran with docker.
I can exit that, now I'm out of docker.
So, hopefully that kinda
illuminates a little bit more.
The difference between the shell and
the terminal.
I had one terminal that whole time.
But I opened what, four separate
shells all within each other.
So, they are different and you can
interact with them differently, right?
Shells can be great.
There's a lot of point counterpoint.
People will tell you,
you're absolutely wrong.
You're an idiot.
You're whatever and then if you use the
right one, you're based, you're awesome,
you're blessed,
you got all the right terms, right?
So, people are gonna talk wild on
the Internet about all the different
bashes right?
Or all the different shells, so
you got bash, zsh, tsh, bish, fish.
Me personally, I'm like bish please,
I'm gonna use zsh, okay.
I'm not gonna be using bish,
that's ridiculous.
But, it's just because
that's the one I wanna use.
By the way, I made that meme on Twitter.
No one liked it.
I thought it was really good.
Okay, I thought it was really good,
no like that one.
So, I just use zsh and
I, yes, I use OhMyZsh.
Cuz honestly,
I'm person that I love configuring things,
I love making them better.
But I also have limited time and so,
I kinda choose where I
want to spend my time.
Where I think I'm gonna have the most
impact, on just my day to day life.
So, this is one of those items that
I just farm out to somebody else.
So, I just use OhMyZsh,
gives me a pretty prompt,
gives me an easy way to add plugins.
I don't really need to think about it.
Awesome, good to go.
That's kind of, my lifestyle is that,
not everything needs to be
configured to the nth degree.
Even though you can, so you really could.
So, personal opinion,
just choose anything.
Learn about it a little bit.
But honestly, go get good at core utils.
Go get good at other parts
of your operating system.
And take advantage of tools that
are already built and are amazing, right?
That's personal opinion about the shell.
I don't think a lot of people
have the same opinion.
I'm sure someone eventually will
make a YouTube video, saying why,
what I said is very dangerous.
Everything is very dangerous when it's
someone else's opinion, so careful.
Careful with what you use on the shells.
Anyways, apply what you learn.
If you have an Ansible script.
Once you just get zsh or
fish or whatever you've decided,
put that as part of your
installation process.
Get a docker container that is
just a basic docker container.
And see if you can create an Ansible
process to install the shell that
you want.
And make sure it works.
Right, it's fun, by the way fun side note.
When I did do this talk, I think I already
said this, I can't remember if I did.
But that zsh auto suggestions.
I literally could not figure out why
I wasn't getting auto suggestions.
It took me like 10
minutes to figure it out.
And so,
because I had the new docker container.
It's cuz even though
I've installed it before.
It's so
easy to forget all these little things.
I'm like, why is my zsh slightly off?
I don't get it.
It's frustrating, all right.
Anyways, that's all, that's I wanted to
talk about window managers and shells.
I kept it really light because I didn't
wanna spend too much time there.
Like I said, I don't think there's huge.
I don't think there's a lot you get to
gain out of those ones comparatively to
other topics.